NIST Cybersecurity Framework 2.0:
U.S. Department of Commerce
Howard Lutnick, Secretary of Commerce
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Craig Burkhardt, Acting Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology
and Acting NIST Director
Cybersecurity, Enterprise Risk Management, and
Workforce Management Quick-Start Guide
NIST Special Publication
NIST SP 1308
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1308
March 2026

2
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
INTRODUCTION
Purpose of this Guide
This Quick-Start Guide (QSG) draws on concepts and practices from enterprise risk management, cybersecurity risk management, and
workforce management to help organizations improve communication about cybersecurity risks,plan workforce decisions, and
implement risk-informed responses. The scope of this QSG will vary depending on the user,but generally applies at the organization
level, where cybersecurity risks of multiple systems are managed, and at the enterprise level, where senior leaders take on unique risk
management responsibilities spanning multiple organizations(see NIST IR 8286 for a discussion of these levels). This QSG addresses the
need for agile, continuous workforce adaptation to rapidly evolve for emerging threats and technologies. Organizations should iterate
through this process regularly, with provisions for rapid response when significant threat landscape changes occur.
Cybersecurity Risk Management (CSRM)
Cybersecurity risks are one of many types of risk that all organizations should manage and integrateinto their broader enterprise risk
management (ERM) strategy. Potential negative impacts to organizations from cybersecurity risks include higher costs, data loss,
operational disruptions, lost revenue, reputational damage, and reduced innovation. In addition to negative risks, positive risks—where
an enterprise asset may constitute an opportunity to realize a benefit or positive impact—should also be considered. The NIST
Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0 provides guidance for managing cybersecurity risks by helping organizations understand, assess,
prioritize, and communicate consistently about cybersecurity efforts, including those related to the cybersecurity workforce.
Making ERM, CSRM, and Workforce Risk-Based Decisions
Gaps and opportunities related to the sufficiency and competency of an enterprise's cybersecurity workforce are one type of
cybersecurity risk. This guide helps organizations make informed workforceand risk decisions based on the integration of ERM, CSRM,
and workforce management strategy. For instance, based on the current organizational risk appetite and tolerance, cybersecurity
strategy, mission objectives, budget, and existing cybersecurity workforce, anorganization might decide they need tohire, upskill,
reorganize, or change a risk treatment altogether to effectively address their current cybersecurity risks or to achieve their targeted
cybersecurity outcomes. People, processes, and technologycombine to achieve acceptable levels of enterprise and cybersecurity risk,
and cybersecurity workforce assessment is often made more difficult by disconnects between technical and human resources
teams. The NICE Framework focuses on people, providing a common language for describing cybersecurity work, including the Work
Roles an organization’s cybersecurity staff must perform.
Enterprise Risk
Management
Cybersecurity
Risk
Management
Workforce
Management
Key Terms
• Enterprise Risk Management: An effective organization-wide
approach to addressing the full spectrum of the organization’s
significant risks by understanding the combined impact of risks as
an interrelated portfolio rather than addressing risks only within
silos [NIST IR 8286r1].
• Cybersecurity Risk Management: The process of managing
uncertainty on or within information and technology [NIST IR
8286D-upd1].
• Cybersecurity Workforce Management: Includes individuals and
teams whose primary work responsibilities impact an
organization’s ability to protect its data, technology systems,
and operations—both traditional IT security as well
as related roles that apply cybersecurity skills and
knowledge [NIST SP 800-181r1].

3
RESOURCES TO ALIGN CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
Three NIST resources enable users to align their cybersecurity, ERM, and workforce
management practices in a streamlined process:
• The Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0 helps organizations—regardless of size, sector,
or maturity—understand and communicate their cybersecurity efforts. At its most
granular level, the CSF defines Categories and Subcategories of specific outcomes of
cybersecurity risk management activities. Organizations use those outcomes to
construct an Organizational Profile. Communities of interest can also use the CSF
2.0 outcome statements to create a Community Profile, which is a baseline of CSF
outcomes that addresses shared interests and goals among a group of organizations.
• The NICE Framework helps organizations improve cybersecurity capabilities,
communicate work responsibilities, and develop training. Once an organization’s
current or target cybersecurity posture in terms of CSF cybersecurity outcomes is
identified, the NICE Framework can be used to identify how to support or reach that
target goal. The most granular elements of the NICE Framework are Task, Knowledge,
and Skill (TKS) statements. Work Roles are groups of TKS statements relevant to specific
cybersecurity functions.
• The NIST IR 8286 series provides a suite of guidance documents and templates to
support improved communication between cybersecurity professionals and
organizational leadership and to align cybersecurity risk management with broader
ERM practices.
Some units within an organization may already use individual resources described above;
however, organizations will benefit from using all three together. This QSG connects the
three resources and their respective stakeholder groups in a holistic, workforce-focused
cybersecurity risk management process. Additional resources are listed on page 11.
Enterprise Risk
Management
(ERM)
Cybersecurity
Risk
Management
(CSF)
Workforce
Management
(NICE
Framework)
NIST IR 8286This QSG
Questions to Consider
• What cybersecurity risks are likely to affect delivery of the organization’s mission?
• What actions are necessary to mitigate identified cybersecurity risks?
• How is cybersecurity being incorporated into the broader ERM strategy?
• How are workforce capabilities of third parties and vendors assessed and monitored?
• How should information sharing and decision making among ERM, CSRM, and workforce
teams take place?
• Who has the skills and knowledge necessary to achieve a given cybersecurity outcome?
• What contractual requirements exist for competencies and certifications of vendor staff?
• Which cybersecurity functions should be automated vs. requiring human judgment?
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE

4
NOTIONAL APPLICATION OF THE CSF
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
The remainder of this guide is organized into the five Cybersecurity
Framework Profile implementation steps in alignment with
CSRM/ERM integration and workforce management.
5 Steps for Creating and Using
a CSF Organizational Profile
Scope the Organizational Profile
Gather needed information
Create the Organizational Profile
Analyze gaps and create an action
plan
Implement action plan and update
Profile, repeating cycle as necessary
Five Cybersecurity Framework Profile implementation steps in alignment with
CSRM/ERM integration (figure 7, NIST IR 8286Cr1)
d
When used together, these stepsenable users to align their cybersecurity, ERM, and workforce
management practices to adequately address risks and inform continuous improvement of CSRM.
1
2
3
4
5
Note: the Business Impact Analysis in Step 1 provides a business process prioritization to inform risk direction (see NIST IR 8286Cr1).

5
STEP 1: SCOPE THE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
Overview: The scope defines the high-level facts, assumptions, and constraints on which the Profiles will be based. The first step is to
convene stakeholders from across the enterprise with the perspective and authority to collect risk and workforce data, articulate needs,
and execute identified risk responses. The purpose of the group will be to define the scope of the effort, align security risks to the
enterprise mission, and make informed risk and workforce decisions based upon current and desired risk context, priorities, budget, etc.
Sample activities in this step:
1. Identify accountable leads from board-level, executive leadership, cybersecurity, enterprise risk management, and
workforce management teams and establish an initial process timeline.
2. Review the organization's mission, goals, objectives and high-level priorities.
3. Conduct/review the business impact analysis (BIA), which includes identifying high value assets that are critical to achieving
organizational objectives. This information is used to scope the CSF Organizational Profile. The BIA examines the potential impact
associated with the loss or degradation of an enterprise’s information assets based on a qualitative or quantitativeassessment of the
criticality and sensitivity of those assets. Learn more in NIST IR 8286D-upd1.
4. Establish change management protocols and executive sponsorship to ensure cross-functional collaboration among teams.
5. Identify third-party dependencies and include their workforce capabilities in scope.
No
tes:
• An o
rganization may use several Profiles. Each Profile can have a distinct scope (e.g., enterprise, system), which defines the high-level
facts and assumptions on which the Profile is based.
• Stakeholder teams convened in this step may or may not have experience working closely together. Efforts should be made to obtain a
shared understanding of each unit’s roles, responsibilities, and internal processes and to create a high performing team.
• Organizations may find it beneficial to pilot the process described in this QSG by beginning with a subset of CSF outcomes.
Relevant CSF Core Category:
Organizational Context (GV.OC)
T
he circumstances – mission, stakeholder
expectations, dependencies, and legal,
regulatory, and contractual requirements –
surrounding the organization’s cybersecurity
risk management decisions are understood.
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
Key Term: High Value Asset
Information or an information system that is so
critical to an organization that the loss or
corruption of this information or loss of access
to the system would have serious impacts on
the organization’s ability to perform its mission
or conduct business [NIST SP 800-160 Vol. 2
Rev. 1].

6
STEP 2: GATHER THE INFORMATION NEEDED TO PREPARE THE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
Overview: Having a clear picture of the organization’s current CSRM, ERM, and workforce context and risk
environment helps leadership adequately address the most critical risks to an organization’s mission.
ERM Information Source Considerations
• Risk appetite and risk tolerance statements, which are used to define parameters for determining
acceptable levels of risk
• BIA registers
• Enterprise risk profiles
• Third-party risk assessments, including vendor workforce capabilities
CSRM Information Source Considerations
• A list of cybersecurity requirements, laws, rules, regulations, and standardsfollowed by
the organization
• Emerging and evolving risk factors that require new workforce capabilities
• Organizational policies
• Key Risk Indicators and Key Performance Indicators
• Cybersecurity risk registers
Workforce Information Source Considerations
• Workforce planning information, such as organizational charts or lists of filled and
unfilled cybersecurity and risk management positions
• Inventory of existing skillsets within the organization (including professional certification data)
• Existing recruiting and training programs
• The NICE Framework to CSF 2.0 Crosswalk
Additional Information Source Considerations
• CSF Community Profiles, which can be used as the basis for an organization’s own Target Profile
• NIST Guide to Creating Community Profiles
Relevant CSF Core Category and Subcategories:
Risk Management Strategy (GV.RM)
The organization's priorities, constraints, risk tolerance and appetite
statements, and assumptions are established, communicated, and used to
support operational risk decisions.
• GV.RM-05: Lines of communication across the organization are
established for cybersecurity risks, including risks from suppliers and
other third parties.
• GV.RM-06: A standardized method for calculating, documenting,
categorizing, and prioritizing cybersecurity risks is established and
communicated.
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
Key Term: Business Impact Analysis (BIA) Register
A centralized registry of important asset management information, such as
system ownership, contact information for key stakeholders, and
characteristics of the physical devices (or services). Since asset
management is an important element of cybersecurity risk management,
this information is quite valuable for protecting the asset, detecting cyber
events, responding quickly to potential issues, and recovering services
when necessary. A BIA register is related to but separate from a risk
register, which is a repository of risk information including the data
understood about risks over time [NIST IR 8286D-upd1].

7
STEP 3: CREATE THE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
Overview: An Organizational Profile describes an organization’s current and/or target cybersecurity posture in terms of
cybersecurity outcomes from the Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) Core. Organizational Profiles are used to understand,
tailor, assess, and prioritize cybersecurity outcomes based on an organization’s mission objectives, stakeholder
expectations, threat landscape, and requirements. Organizational Profiles can be categorized as:
• A Current Profile that specifies the CSF outcomes an organization currently achieves, and which characterizes
how or to what extent each outcome is being achieved.
• A Target Profile specifies the desired CSF outcomes an organization has selected and prioritized for achieving its
cybersecurity risk management objectives. It considers anticipated changes to the organization’s cybersecurity
posture, such as: new requirements, new technology adoption, and trends in threat intelligence.
• Note: These are viewed side-by-side as one artifact within the CSF Organizational Profile template to help
organizations identify and analyze the risks presented within the gap between Current and Target.
Sample activities in this step:
1. Review the CSF Functions, Categories, and Subcategories to determine outcomes the organization currently
achieves, and to what extent. This step provides an opportunity for enterprise stakeholders to review and analyze
what is currently being done while considering enterprise risk context and risk strategy.
2. Review the CSF Functions, Categories, and Subcategories to determine target-state outcomes, with a clear
understanding of organizational priorities and budget. This step provides an opportunity for cybersecurity risk
managers, informed by an understanding of the risk implications defined in thecurrent profile, to determine the
desired set of processes and activities that will accomplish stakeholder expectations cost-effectively and efficiently.
3. Throughout each of the above activities, workforce managers, in conjunction with the CSRM and ERM teams,
examine how workforce roles and skills contribute to risk management success, or could be improved to do
so. Continuous profile updates reflect improvements and adjustments based on evolving risk conditions.
Drive P
rogress Over Time with CSF Profiles
Note: The gaps within this graphic are uniform to illustrate the
general concept, but gaps between Current and Target state will vary.
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
Resources
• NIST provides a customizable CSF Organizational Profile
template as a spreadsheet. You can download and use
it to create Current and Target Profiles for
your organization.
• View the CSF 2.0 Profiles page in the CSF 2.0 Resource
Library.

8
STEP 4: ANALYZE GAPS BETWEEN CURRENT AND TARGET PROFILES AND CRE ATE AN ACTION PLAN
Overview: Once the team has completed the Current and Target profiles, conduct a gap analysis to identify, at a very high level, the risks
created by gaps exposed between Current and Target. This gap analysis will support the development of a prioritized action plan
supported by a risk register.
Sample activities in this step:
1. Using a pre-existing risk register (if available) and NIST CSF outcome statements, review knownrisks and make necessary
adjustments to the risk register. Add risks identified during the gap analysis that maynot have been identified.
2. Review the risk register to understand which risks are most critical to achieving the organization’s mission and assess who will be the
risk owner and risk action owner. The focus shifts to analyzing the internal and external workforce gaps relative to risk.
3. Carefully consider and designate risk ownership. Those designated as the risk owners should continuously monitor risk conditions
and remain accountable to internal and external authorities. A gap analysisbetween the assigned risk owner and the risk work role
can be conducted to see if the practitioner has the competencies necessary to address the problem.Since risk conditions may
change as information is aggregated, responsibility and accountability should be periodically reviewed to ensure that the risk owner
is appropriate.
4. Complete a gap analysis using a crosswalk between the NICE Framework and the CSF.Does the organization have the requisite staff
needed to adequately address the risk? Begin considering whether it is possible to hire orupskill employees to fill
identified gaps. Are there other gaps that exist, such asin roles or job descriptions, organizational or reporting structure, etc.?
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
Relevant CSF Core Category and
Subcategories: Roles, Responsibilities,
and Authorities (GV.RR)
Cybersecurity roles, responsibilities, and authorities to foster
accountability, performance assessment, and continuous
improvement are established and communicated.
• GV.RR-01: Organizational leadership is responsible and
accountable for cybersecurity risk and fosters a culture that
is risk-aware, ethical, and continually improving
• GV.RR-02: Roles, responsibilities, and authorities related to
cybersecurity risk management are established,
communicated, understood, and enforced
• GV.RR-03: Adequate resources are allocated commensurate
with the cybersecurity risk strategy, roles, responsibilities,
and policies
• GV.RR-04: Cybersecurity is included in human resources
practices
Key Term: Risk Register
A risk register is “a repository of risk information, including the
data understood about risks over time. Typically, a risk register
contains a description of the risk, the impact if the risk should
occur, the probability of its occurrence, mitigation strategies,
risk owners, and a ranking to identify higher priority risks.” Each
register evolves and matures as other risk activities take place
[NIST IR 8286r1].
Sample Risk Register
ID Priority Risk
Description
Risk
Category
Current Assessment Risk
Response
Type
Risk Response
Cost
Risk Response
Description
Risk
Owner
Risk
Action
Owner
Status
Likelihood Impact Exposure
Rating

9
STEP 5: IMPLEMENT THE ACTION PLAN AND UPDATE THE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
Overview: At this step in the CSRM/ERM/workforce alignment process, cybersecurity risk practitioners understand
stakeholder expectations, budget, priorities, high value assets, and risks. Equipped with this information, they can
now determine the appropriate workforce or risk responses to adequately address the most critical risks to the
organization.
S
ample activities in this step:
C
onvene a team to jointly select workforce responses for identified high-priority risks. Workforce responses can
include the following, individually or in combination:
• Upskill current employees through professional development, mentorship, or hiring new staff into
developmental programs such as internships, apprenticeships, or co-ops.
• Create new positions, modify existing ones, or potentially implement a reorganization to address risks.
• Recruit fully competent staff to fill a position or positions using the NICE Framework to help identify
relevant Work Roles and associated Tasks, Knowledge, and Skills.
• Augment staff by contracting with third-parties.
1. Workforce management team: Assign estimated costs for workforce responses selected for each Subcategory,
and add details related to timeline, metrics, success criteria, and implementation considerations for associated
people, processes, and technology. Costs and timelines will vary depending on organization characteristics. If
the identified risks are positive risks, organizations may wish to consider ways to realize, share, or enhance
those opportunities [NIST IR 8286r1].
2. If workforce-focused risk responses are not possible, consider adjusting risk response. For example, if training
and hiring are not viable options for an absent workforce capability, the organization may consider selecting a
different mitigation strategy or changing the risk response type to, for example, accept, avoid, or transfer .
3. The leadership team finalizes and signs off on updated risk register(s).
Key Terms
• Task: An activity that is
directed toward the
achievement of
organizational objectives.
• Knowledge: A retrievable set
of concepts within memory.
• Skill: The capacity to perform
an observable action.
Resources
• The NICE Framework helps you understand the wide variety of
cybersecurity roles and responsibilities that exist across an organization.
It can be used to help assess the current workforce as well as identify
capability gaps, develop career pathways, create employee upskilling or
career plans, and identify courses and training that align with those
needs.
• An Employer’s Guide to Writing Effective Cybersecurity Job Descriptions
provides tips on how to use the NICE Framework when hiring so that
you will be equipped to author and communicate about position
responsibilities and find the candidate that meets your needs.
• For small businesses with limited resources, the Building Your Small
Business’ Cybersecurity Team: From In-House to Outsourcing resource
helps identify options for possible workforce responses.
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
Relationship Between Task,
Knowledge, and Skill Statements.
Credit: NICE Program Office

10
ITERATION
Overview: In the preceding steps, enterprise stakeholders collected risk information, assessed workforce readiness, and
identified workforce and risk responses to address high-priority risks. Now begins the task of continuous monitoring,
“which allows organizations to maintain the authorizations of systems and common controls in highly dynamic
environments of operation with changing mission and business needs, threats, vulnerabilities, and technologies. Having
access to security and privacy information on a continuing basis through reports and dashboards gives organizational
officials the ability to make effective and timely risk management decisions, including ongoing authorization decisions”
[SP 800-53r5].
Sample activities:
1. Manage: Stakeholders implement identified risk responses and, where applicable, incorporate those responses
into broader ERM processes. CSRM/ERM/workforce strategies are continuously monitored, evaluated, and
adapted to be successful. Stakeholder teams develop plans and processes for continued collaboration to regularly
evaluate how effectively risks are being addressed.
2. Evaluate: Establish a process for evaluating how effectively planned interventions have addressed risks, including
regular check-ins among stakeholder teams working in priority areas. Consider reassessing the risk after the
intervention has been in place for a specified timeframe. Ensure the risk register is updated and that cybersecurity
risks are incorporated into broader ERM portfolios, if applicable (see NIST IR 8286r1 for a discussion of risk
portfolios). An organization's finance and accounting staff should be involved; if evaluation takes place at the
enterprise level, audit committees may be involved as well. This also includes verifying that controls and
authorities persist coherently and aren’t fragmented across the enterprise.
3. Adjust:  Once stakeholders have evaluated the chosen workforce intervention and other risk interventions to
determine whether they have adequately addressed risk to the organization, the next action is to adjust where
necessary. Further workforce responses—such as contracting, temporary workforce augmentation, upskilling,
reskilling, reassignment of roles or responsibilities—and risk response adjustments may be necessary.
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK
-
START GUIDE
Continuous Monitoring of CSRM, ERM, and
Workforce Strategy.
Learn m
ore about the Manage, Evaluate, Adjust
(MEA) lifecycle within NIST IR 8286Cr1
Evaluate
Adjust
Manage

11
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
Additional Resources
• Understanding the Cybersecurity Framework: Other quick-start guides focused on small businesses, cybersecurity supply
chain risk management, ERM, and other subjects are available on the CSF 2.0 Resource Center.
• Risk identification, analysis, and prioritization:
• IR 8286Ar1 provides comprehensive information on risk registers and more granular risk detail records.
• SP 800-30r1, SP 800-221, and SP 800-221A discuss risk assessments and the integration of information and
communications technology into ERM processes.
• The NIST Risk Management Framework provides a comprehensive process for managing information security and
privacy risks at the system level.
• Workforce assessment and best practices: The NICE Framework Resource Center provides additional formats for the NICE
Framework, in-depth cybersecurity workforce development resources, and information about cybersecurity workforce
partnerships, such as the RAMPS communities. Organizations can receive assistance with NICE Framework implementation
by emailing NICEframework@nist.gov.
• Crosswalk for the CSF 2.0 and NICE Framework helps organizations identify priority Work Roles(Note: several Work
Roles may map to each CSF Subcategory).
• NICE Framework Components supports identification of priority Work Roles and relevant Tasks, Knowledge,
and Skills to target in training and recruitment.
• Building a Cybersecurity and Privacy Learning Program helps organizations create or mature an organizational
learning program in support of an informed and capable cybersecurity and privacy workforce.
• The NIST Cybersecurity Career Ambassador Program seeks to create a network of employers, educators, and others
who serve as champions to prepare, grow, and sustain a skilled cybersecurity workforce.
• The NIST Small Business Cybersecurity Corner provides resources specifically tailored to small businesses.
Glossary of Acronyms
• BIA: Business Impact Analysis
• CSRM: Cybersecurity Risk Management
• CSF: Cybersecurity Framework
• ERM: Enterprise Risk Management
• QSG: Quick-Start Guide
• TKS: Task, Knowledge, and Skill
CSF 2.0: CYBERSECURITY , ERM, AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT
QUICK START GUIDE