NIST Special Publication
NIST SP 1299
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP .1299
February 2024
NIST Cybersecurity
Framework 2.0:
RESOURCE &
OVERVIEW GUIDE

NIST CSF 2.0:
RESOURCE
& OVERVIEW GUIDE
WHAT IS THE CSF 2.0…AND POPULAR WAYS TO USE IT?
The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0 can help organizations manage and reduce their cybersecurity
risks as they start or improve their cybersecurity program. The CSF outlines specific outcomes that
organizations can achieve to address risk. Other NIST resources help explain specific actions that can be
taken to achieve each outcome. This guide is a supplement to the NIST CSF and is not intended to replace it.
The CSF 2.0, along with NIST’s supplementary resources, can be used by organizations to understand,
assess, prioritize, and communicate cybersecurity risks; it is particularly useful for fostering internal and
external communication across teams — as well as integrating with broader risk management strategies.
The CSF 2.0 is organized by six Functions — Govern, Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.
Together, these Functions provide a comprehensive view for managing cybersecurity risk. This Resource &
Overview Guide offers details about each Function to serve as potential starting points.
The CSF 2.0 is comprised of:
• CSF Core - A taxonomy of high-level cybersecurity outcomes that can help any organization manage its
c
ybersecurity risks.
• CSF Organizational Profiles - A mechanism for describing an organization’s current and/or
target cybersecurity posture in terms of the CSF Core’s outcomes.
• CSF Tiers - Can be applied to CSF Organizational Profiles to characterize the rigor of an organization’s
cybersecurity risk governance and management practices.

NIST CSF 2.0:
RESOURCE
& OVERVIEW GUIDE
EXPLORE MORE CSF 2.0 RESOURCES
Informative
References
View and create mappings between CSF 2.0 and other documents.
Do you want to submit your mappings to NIST documents and have
them displayed on our site? Please follow the link to the left or email
olir@nist.gov if you have any questions.
Cybersecurity
& Privacy
Reference Tool
(CPRT)
Browse and download the CSF 2.0 Core & mapped content. CPRT
provides a centralized, standardized, and modernized mechanism for
managing reference datasets (and offers a consistent format for
accessing reference data from various NIST cybersecurity and privacy
standards, guidelines, and frameworks).
Implementation
Examples
View and download notional examples of concise, action-oriented steps
to help achieve the outcomes of the CSF 2.0 Subcategories in addition to
the guidance provided in the Informative References.
CSF 2.0
Reference Tool
Access human and machine-readable versions of the Core (in JSON and
Excel). You can also view and export portions of the Core using key
search terms.
Additional Resources Include:
Community Profiles and Profile templates (help organizations put the CSF into practice)
Search tools (simplify and streamline as you look for specific information)
Concept papers (learn more about various CSF topics)
FAQs (see what others are asking and get answers to top questions)
Explore the suite of NIST’s CSF 2.0 Resource Repository

NIST CSF 2.0:
RESOURCE
& OVERVIEW GUIDE
NAVIGATING NIST’s CSF 2.0 QUICK START GUIDES (QSG)
QSG Type Description Explore
Small Business
(SMB)
Provides SMBs, specifically those who have
modest or no cybersecurity plans in place, with
considerations to kick-start their cybersecurity
risk management strategy.
See the QSG
Creating and Using
Organizational
Profiles
Provides all organizations with considerations
for creating and using Current and/or Target
Profiles to implement the CSF 2.0.
See the QSG
Using the CSF Tiers
Explains how any organization can apply the CSF
Tiers to Organizational Profiles to characterize
the rigor of its cybersecurity risk governance
and management practices.
See the QSG
Draft Cybersecurity
Supply Chain Risk
Management
(C-SCRM)
Helps all organizations to become smart
acquirers and suppliers of technology products
and services by improving their C-SCRM
processes.
See the QSG
Draft Enterprise
Risk Management
(ERM) Practitioners
Details how Enterprise Risk Management
practitioners can utilize the outcomes provided
in CSF 2.0 to improve organizational
cybersecurity risk management.
See the QSG
…and more to follow in the future.
See the current online QSG repository

NIST CSF 2.0: RESOURCE & OVERVIEW GUIDE
GOVERN
The organization’s cybersecurity risk management
strategy, expectations, and policy are established,
communicated, and monitored.
Understand and assess specific cybersecurity needs.
De
termine your organization’s unique risks and needs.
Discuss the current and predicted risk environment and
the amount of risk your organization is willing to
accept. Seek input and ideas from across the
organization. Understand what has worked or not
worked well in the past and discuss it openly.
Develop a tailored cybersecurity risk strategy. T
his
should be based on your organization’s specific
cybersecurity objectives, the risk environment, and
lessons learned from the past — and from others.
Manage, update, and discuss the strategy at regular
intervals. Roles and responsibilities should be clear.
Establish defined risk management policies. P
olicies
should be approved by management and should be
organization-wide, repeatable, and recurring, and
should align with the current cybersecurity threat
environment, risks (which will change over time), and
mission objectives. Embed policies in company culture
to help drive and inspire the ability to make informed
decisions. Account for legal, regulatory, and contractual
obligations.
Develop and communicate organizational
c
ybersecurity practices. These must be straightforward
and communicated regularly. They should reflect the
application of risk management to changes in mission
or business requirements, threats, and overall technical
landscape. Document practices and share them with
room for feedback and the agility to change course.
Establish and monitor cybersecurity supply chain risk
management. Establish strategy, policy, and roles and
re
sponsibilities — including for overseeing suppliers,
customers, and partners. Incorporate requirements
into contracts. Involve partners and suppliers in
planning, response, and recovery.
Implement continuous oversight and checkpoints.
An
alyze risks at regular intervals and monitor them
continuously (just as you would with financial risks).
IDENTIFY
The organization’s current
cybersecurity risks are understood.
Identify critical business processes and assets.
C
onsider which of your organization’s activities
absolutely must continue to be viable. For example, this
could be maintaining a website to retrieve payments,
securely protecting customer/patient information, or
ensuring that the information critical to your
organization remains accessible and accurate.
Maintain inventories of hardware, software, services,
and systems. Know what computers and software your
o
rganization uses — including services provided by
suppliers — because these are frequently the entry
points of malicious actors. This inventory could be as
simple as a spreadsheet. Consider including owned,
leased, and employees’ personal devices and apps.
Document information flows. C
onsider what type of
information your organization collects and uses (and
where the data are located and how they are used),
especially when contracts and external partners are
involved.
Identify threats, vulnerabilities, and risk to assets.
I
nformed by knowledge of internal and external threats,
risks should be identified, assessed, and documented.
Examples of ways to document them include risk
registers – repositories of risk information, including
data about risks over time. Ensure risk responses are
identified, prioritized, and executed, and that results
are monitored.
Lessons learned are used to identify improvements.
W
hen conducting day-to-day business operations, it is
important to identify ways to further refine or enhance
performance, including opportunities to better manage
and reduce cybersecurity risks. This requires purposeful
effort by your organization at all levels. If there is an
incident, assess what happened. Prepare an afteraction report that documents the incident, the
response, recovery actions taken, and lessons learned.

NIST CSF 2.0: RESOURCE & OVERVIEW GUIDE
PROTECT
Safeguards to manage the
organization’s cybersecurity
risks are used.
Manage access. C reate unique accounts for employees
and ensure users only have access to necessary
resources. Authenticate users before they are granted
access to information, computers, and applications.
Manage and track physical access to facilities/devices.
Train users.
Regularly train employees to ensure they
are aware of cybersecurity policies and procedures and
that they have the knowledge and skills to perform
general and specific tasks; explain how to recognize
common attacks and report suspicious activity. Certain
roles may require extra training.
Protect and monitor your devices. C
onsider using
endpoint security products. Apply uniform
configurations to devices and control changes to device
configurations. Disable services or features that
don't support mission functions. Configure systems and
services to generate log records. Ensure devices are
disposed of securely.
Protect sensitive data. En
sure sensitive stored or
transmitted data are protected by encryption. Consider
utilizing integrity checking so only approved changes
are made to data. Securely delete and/or destroy data
when no longer needed or required.
Manage and maintain software. R
egularly update
operating systems and applications; enable automatic
updates. Replace end-of-life software with supported
versions. Consider using software tools to scan devices
for additional vulnerabilities and remediate them.
Conduct regular backups.
Back up data at agreed-upon
schedules or use built-in backup capabilities; software
and cloud solutions can automate this process. Keep at
least one frequently backed-up set of data offline to
protect it against ransomware. Test to ensure that
backed-up data can be successfully restored to systems.
DETECT
Possible cybersecurity attacks
and compromises are
found and analyzed.
Monitor networks, systems, and facilities continuously
to find potentially adverse events. De
velop and test
processes and procedures for detecting indicators of a
cybersecurity incident on the network and in the
physical environment. Collect log information from
multiple organizational sources to assist in detecting
unauthorized activity.
Determine and analyze the estimated impact and
scope of adverse events. I
f a cybersecurity event is
detected, your organization should work quickly and
thoroughly to understand the impact of the incident.
Understanding details regarding any cybersecurity
incidents will help inform the response.
Provide information on adverse events to authorized
staff and tools. W
hen adverse events are detected,
provide information about the event internally to
authorized personnel to ensure appropriate incident
response actions are taken.

NIST CSF 2.0: RESOURCE & OVERVIEW GUIDE
RESPOND
Actions regarding a detected
cybersecurity incident are taken.
Execute an incident response plan once an incident is
declared, in coordination with relevant third parties.
T
o properly execute an incident response plan, ensure
everyone knows their responsibilities; this includes
understanding any requirements (e.g., regulatory, legal
reporting, and information sharing).
Categorize and prioritize incidents and escalate or
elevate as needed. An
alyze what has been taking place,
determine the root cause of the incident, and prioritize
which incidents require attention first from your
organization. Communicate this prioritization to your
team and ensure everyone understands who
information should be communicated to regarding a
prioritized incident when it occurs.
Collect incident data and preserve its integrity and
provenance. C
ollecting information in a safe manner
will help in your organization’s response to an
incident. Ensure that data are still secure after the
incident to maintain your organization’s reputation and
trust from stakeholders. Storing this information in a
safe manner can also help inform updated and future
response plans to be even more effective.
Notify internal and external stakeholders of any
incidents and share incident information with them —
following policies set by your organization.
Securely
share information consistent with response plans and
information-sharing agreements. Notify business
partners and customers of incidents in accordance with
contractual requirements.
Contain and eradicate incidents. Ex
ecuting a developed
and tested response plan will help your organization
contain the effects of an incident and eradicate it.
Meaningful coordination and communication with
stakeholders can result in a more effective response and
mitigation of the incident.
RECOVER
Assets and operations affected by a
cybersecurity incident are restored.
Understand roles and responsibilities. U nderstand
who, within and outside your business, has recovery
responsibilities. Know who has access and authority to
make decisions to carry out your response efforts on
behalf of the business.
Execute your recovery plan. E
nsure operational
availability of affected systems and services; and
prioritize and perform recovery tasks.
Double-check your work. I
t is important to ensure the
integrity of backups and other recovery assets before
using them to resume regular business operations.
Communicate with internal and external stakeholders.
C
arefully account for what, how, and when information
will be shared with various stakeholders so that all
interested parties receive the information they need,
but no inappropriate information is shared.
Communicate to your staff any lessons learned and
revisions to processes, procedures, and technologies
(following policies already set by the organization). This
is a good time to train, or retrain, staff on cybersecurity
best practices.

U.S. Department of Commerce
Gina M. Raimondo, Secretary
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Laurie E. Locascio, NIST Director and Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology